# Nmap project details


## Description

This is a project to scan hosts by the IP address of DNS name using Jenkins and an additional too named Nmap.

#### Instructions on how to use

<hr>

In Jenkins the job to run this build should include the following:
### General
- project name: `Nmap_Scanner`
- Description:
Nmap uses raw IP packets to determine what hosts are available on the network, what services (application name and version) those hosts are offering and running, what operating systems (and OS versions) they are running, what type of packet filters/firewalls are in use, and much more.

On Jenkins `Nmap_Scanner`
- target: give a host to scan or DNS name E.X: `192.168.10.100` `127.0.0.1` `scanme.nmap.org`
- can_tech: select the flag that bet mush the purpose of the scan.
- scan_port: type the port that to be scanned or live it as `-` means all ports.
- os_detection: select the type detection to discover the operation system of a target.
- flag_discov: type of packet to use, namp will send packet try to get the information about the target or targets.
- service_detec: try to detect the services running on the target
- nse_script: there a lot of scripts that can be used in conjunction to do a better scanning type the desired or a combination of some.
- debugging_level: this is the level of details nmap would display/record about the scanning on a target
- verbose: Increase verbosity level (use -vv or more for greater effect) [this Jenkins job uses `-vvv` for every build as a default]

There is a config file which is how the configuration for the build should be:
- Create a job on Jenkins name: `nmap_scanner`
- then run a build just to make Jenkins create a path for the project: E.X => `/var/lib/jenkins/jobs/nmap_scanner/config.xml`
- in the config.xml file, just copy the the config.xml from this project and paste it into Jenkins one at; `/var/lib/jenkins/jobs/nmap_scanner/config.xml`. Now the job will be ready, copy and past the nmap_script.sh file into; `/var/lib/jenkins/workspace/nmap_scanner/nmap_script.sh`, make it executable `chmod +x nmap_script.sh`.

Jenkins is ready to go with the nmap scanner testing...


### Jenkins Nmap_Scanner
Execute shell
```
./nmap_script.sh --target=$target --scan-tech=$scan_tech --scan-port=$scan_port --os-detection=$os_detection --flag-discov=$flag_discov --service-detec=$service_detec --nse-script=$nse_script --debugging-level=$debugging_level

```

At the termination of each build Jenkins would send an email with the an PDF fine with all results generated by the Namp scanning.


<hr>

DONE

<hr>

### Reference:

Nmap documentaion https://nmap.org/docs.html

Nmap Cheat Sheet
https://www.stationx.net/nmap-cheat-sheet/
